.TH tlp-stat 8 2025-11-17 "TLP 1.9.0" "Power Management"
.
.SH NAME
tlp-stat - view power saving status
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlp-stat \fB[\fIoptions\fR] [\fB--\fR \fICONFIG_PARAM\fR\fB=\fIvalue\fR "..."]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
View configuration, system information, kernel power saving tunables and battery
data. Invocation without options shows all information categories.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.SS System Operation
.TP
.B -s, --system
View system information and TLP status.
.
.TP
.B -m, --mode
Print currently active power profile.
.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B -c, --config
View active configuration.
.
.TP
.B --cdiff
View the difference between defaults and user configuration.
.
.TP
.B -- \fR\fICONFIG_PARAM\fR\fB=\fIvalue\fR "..."
Append configuration parameters to a command. These temporarily override
the system configuration during execution of that command only and are not
kept afterwards.
Disclaimer: this feature exists for the sole purpose of test automation
during TLP's development. It is provided as is and there is no support
whatsoever.
.
.SS Power Saving
.TP
.B -d, --disk
View disk device tunables.
.
.TP
.B -e, --pcie
View PCIe device tunables. Add \fB-v\fR to see device runtime status.
.
.TP
.B -g, --graphics
View graphics card tunables. Add \fB-v\fR to see power state
and clocks of AMD GPUs.
.
.TP
.B -p, --processor
View processor tunables. For clarity the standard output shows only cpu0.
Add \fB-v\fR to see all cpus.
Add \fB-q\fR to see cpu driver state only.
.
.TP
.B -r, --rfkill
View radio device states and tunables.
Add \fB-v\fR to see NetworkManager and rfkill details.
.
.TP
.B -u, --usb
View USB device tunables. Add \fB-v\fR to see device runtime status.
.
.SS Battery Care
.TP
.B -b, --battery
View battery data and battery care features supported by your hardware.
Add \fB-v\fR to see battery voltages (if available).
.
.SS Information
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Omit version header and show less information in the processor category.
.
.TP
.B -t, --temp
View temperatures and fan speed.
Add \fB-v\fR to see all individual sensors.
.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Show more information in the battery, graphics, PCIe, processor, temperature,
wireless and USB categories.
.
.TP
.B --version
Print TLP version.
.
.SS Diagnostics and debugging
.TP
.B --pd-diag
View tlp-pd diagnostics.
.
.TP
.B -P, --pev
Monitor power supply udev events.
.
.TP
.B --psup
View power supply diagnostics.
.
.TP
.B -T, --trace
View trace output for tlp and tlp-pd.
.
.TP
.B --trace-nm
View trace output correlated with NetworkManager journal.
.
.TP
.B --udev
Check if udev rules for power source changes and connecting USB devices
are active.
.
.TP
.B -w, --warn
View warnings about SATA disks.
.
.SH AUTHORIZATION
.PP
Many (but not all) \fBtlp-stat\fR commands require root privileges.
.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/tlp.conf
.RS
System-wide user configuration file, uncomment parameters here to override
default settings and customization files below.
.PP
.RE
.I /etc/tlp.d/*.conf
.RS
System-wide drop-in customization files, overriding defaults below.
.PP
.RE
.I /usr/share/tlp/defaults.conf
.RS
Intrinsic default settings. DO NOT EDIT this file, instead use one of the above
alternatives.
.PP
.RE
.I /run/tlp/run.conf
.RS
Effective settings consolidated from all above files. DO NOT CHANGE this file,
it is for reference only and regenerated on every invocation of TLP.
.PP
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tlp (8),
.BR tlpctl (8).
.IP \(bu 3
TLP documentation: <https://linrunner.de/tlp>
.IP \(bu 3
Battery care specifics: <https://linrunner.de/tlp/settings/bc-vendors.html>
.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: <https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/issues>.
.
.SH AUTHOR
(c) 2025 Thomas Koch <linrunner at gmx.net>
