.TH tlp 8 2025-10-27 "TLP 1.9.0" "Power Management"
.
.SH NAME
tlp - apply laptop power saving settings
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlp \fIcommand\fR [\fIparameters\fR] [\fB--\fR \fICONFIG_PARAM\fR\fB=\fIvalue\fR "..."]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtlp\fR applies power saving settings manually and controls battery care
features.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
.SS Profile Management
.TP
.B start
Start \fBtlp\fR and apply the power profile for the actual power source.
Also use to apply a changed configuration or to leave manual mode.
.
.TP
.B performance
Apply the "performance" profile. Parameters ending in _AC are used.
.
.TP
.B balanced
Apply the "balanced" profile. Parameters ending in _BAT are used.
.
.TP
.B power-saver
Apply the "power-saver" profile. Parameters ending in _SAV are used.
If there is no _SAV parameter available for a feature, the _BAT parameter
will be used instead.
.
.TP
.B ac
Apply profile "performance" and enter manual mode.
Manual mode means that changes to the power source will be ignored until the
next reboot or \fBtlp start\fR is invoked to resume automatic mode.
.
.TP
.B bat
Apply profile "battery" and enter manual mode.
Manual mode means that changes to the power source will be ignored until the
next reboot or \fBtlp start\fR is invoked to resume automatic mode.
.
.SS Battery Care
.TP
.B setcharge\fR [\fIstart_threshold stop_threshold\fR] [\fIbattery\fR]
Change battery charge thresholds temporarily.
If your hardware supports only a stop threshold, set the start value to 0.
Configured charge thresholds will be restored at the next boot or by using
\fBtlp setcharge\fR again but without the threshold arguments.
.
.TP
.B fullcharge\fR [\fIbattery\fR]
Charge battery to full capacity.
This is done by applying vendor presets to the charge thresholds temporarily.
Configured charge thresholds will be restored at the next boot or by using
\fBtlp setcharge\fR without the threshold arguments.
.
.TP
.B chargeonce\fR [\fIbattery\fR]
Charge battery to the stop charge threshold once.
This is done by temporarily lifting the start charge threshold.
The configured start charge threshold will be restored at the next boot or by
using \fBtlp setcharge\fR without the threshold arguments.
.
.TP
.B discharge\fR [\fIbattery\fR] [\fItarget_charge_level\fR]
Force a complete or partial discharge of the battery while on AC power.
.
.TP
.B recalibrate\fR [\fIbattery\fR]
Perform a battery recalibration while on AC power: completely discharge the
battery and recharge to 100%. The latter is done by temporarily applying vendor
presets to the thresholds. Configured thresholds will be restored at the next
boot or by using \fBtlp setcharge\fR.
.
.SS Device Power Management
.TP
.B usb
Enable autosuspend for all USB devices except those excluded by default or
via configuration.
.
.TP
.B bayoff
Turn off optical drive in UltraBay/MediaBay.
The drive may be re-enabled by pulling the eject lever or pushing the media
eject button on newer models.
.
.SS Information
.TP
.B diskid
Print disk ids for configured drives.
.
.TP
.B --version
Print TLP version.
.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B --\fR \fICONFIG_PARAM\fR\fB="\fIvalue\fR" "..."
Append configuration parameters to a command. These temporarily override
the system configuration during execution of that command only and are not
kept afterwards.
Disclaimer: this feature exists for the sole purpose of test automation
during TLP's development. It is provided as is and there is no support
whatsoever.
.
.SH AUTHORIZATION
.PP
Almost all \fBtlp\fR commands require root privileges. To change the power profile
without root, you may use \fBtplctl\fR.
.
.SH BATTERY CARE
.PP
Availability of the above battery care commands and the possible charge
threshold values always depend on laptop vendor or brand, Linux kernel version
and TLP version. Check for actual availability, threshold ranges and battery
names with \fBtlp-stat -b\fR. Follow the link in the \fBSEE ALSO\fR section for
details.
.PP
For laptops with two batteries, the secondary battery must be specified
as a command parameter in order to select it. In many cases the main battery
will be \fBBAT0\fR, the secondary battery \fBBAT1\fR. When in doubt, the output of
\fBtlp-stat -b\fR, which lists all batteries, can help.
.
.SH POWER PROFILES
.TP
.B performance
Optimizes the system for maximum performance at the cost of higher power
consumption. Recommended for demanding workloads.
TLP default when running on AC power.
.TP
.B balanced
Provides a balance between performance and power consumption. Suitable for
general-purpose use. TLP default when running on battery power.
.TP
.B power-saver
Optimizes the system for maximum battery life at the cost of reduced
performance. Recommended for maximizing battery runtime.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Change thresholds of the main battery to 70 / 90% temporarily:
.EX
tlp setcharge 70 90
.EE
.TP
Charge the secondary battery to full capacity:
.EX
tlp fullcharge BAT1
.EE
.TP
Recalibrate the main battery:
.EX
tlp recalibrate
.EE
.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/tlp.conf
.RS
System-wide user configuration file, uncomment parameters here to override
default settings and customization files below.
.PP
.RE
.I /etc/tlp.d/*.conf
.RS
System-wide drop-in customization files, overriding defaults below.
.PP
.RE
.I /usr/share/tlp/defaults.conf
.RS
Intrinsic default settings. DO NOT EDIT this file, instead use one of the above
alternatives.
.PP
.RE
.I /run/tlp/run.conf
.RS
Effective settings consolidated from all above files. DO NOT CHANGE this file,
it is for reference only and regenerated on every invocation of TLP.
.PP
.RE
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tlpctl (1),
.BR tlp-stat (8),
.BR bluetooth (1),
.BR nfc (1),
.BR wifi (1),
.BR wwan (1).
.IP \(bu 3
TLP documentation: <https://linrunner.de/tlp>
.IP \(bu 3
Battery care specifics: <https://linrunner.de/tlp/settings/bc-vendors.html>
.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: <https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/issues>.
.
.SH AUTHOR
(c) 2025 Thomas Koch <linrunner at gmx.net>
